gRPC ebook Chapter 3 - Protocol Buffers (#14304)
dotnet/docs: docs/architecture/grpc-for-wcf-developers/protocol-buffers.md

﻿---
title: Protocol Buffers - gRPC for WCF Developers
description: Introduction to the Protocol Buffers wire format used for gRPC networking
author: markrendle
ms.date: 09/09/2019
---

# Protocol Buffers

gRPC services send and receive data as *Protocol Buffer (Protobuf) messages*, similar to WCF's Data Contracts. Protobuf is a very efficient way of serializing structured data for machines to read and write, without the overhead that human-readable formats like XML or JSON incur.

This chapter covers how Protobuf works, and how to define your own Protobuf messages.

## How Protobuf works

> Most .NET object serialization techniques, including WCF's DataContracts, work by using reflection to analyze the object structure at run-time. By contrast, Protobuf requires you to define the structure up front using a dedicated language (*Protocol Buffer Language*) in a `.proto` file. This is then used to generate code for any of the supported platforms, including .NET, Java, C/C++, JavaScript and many more. The Protobuf compiler, `protoc`, is maintained by Google, although alternative implementations are available. The generated code is very efficient and optimized for fast serialization/deserialization of data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most .NET object serialization techniques, including WCF's DataContracts, work by using reflection to analyze the object structure at run-time. By contrast, most Protobuf libraries require you to define the structure up front using a dedicated language (*Protocol Buffer Language*) in a `.proto` file. This is then used by a compiler to generate code for any of the supported platforms, including .NET, Java, C/C++, JavaScript and many more. The Protobuf compiler, `protoc`, is maintained by Google, although alternative implementations are available. The generated code is very efficient and optimized for fast serialization/deserialization of data.
```

> Most .NET object serialization techniques, including WCF's DataContracts, work by using reflection to analyze the object structure at run-time. By contrast, most Protobuf libraries require you to define the structure up front using a dedicated language (*Protocol Buffer Language*) in a `.proto` file. This is then used by a compiler to generate code for any of the supported platforms, including .NET, Java, C/C++, JavaScript and many more. The Protobuf compiler, `protoc`, is maintained by Google, although alternative implementations are available. The generated code is very efficient and optimized for fast serialization/deserialization of data.

Reviewer 2: This what? This file is then used?
